Ingredients  (for 2)

Big flat rice noodles (Sen Yai or Ho fun) separated, about 1 cup

Protein of your choice 1/2 – 1 cup (beef, pork, chicken, lamb, shrimp fish or tofu for the vegetarian or vegan all work)

Tapioca starch or Cornstarch 1/2 teaspoon (use to marinate the meat only)

Chopped garlic 1 tablespoon

Slice Jalapeño peppers, 2 pods (about 1/2 cup–you can use other kinds of chili peppers that might be spicier than Jalapeño, like Serrano or Thai bird eyes chili, too)

Onion, sliced 1/4 cup

Tomatoes, cut in wedges 1/2 -1 cup (source of your liquid in the stir-fry)

Holy basil, leaves only, not stems  1/2 – 1 cup (You can use Thai basil or even Italian basil)

Egg  1 – 2 eggs

Fish sauce 2 tablespoons (substitute it with light soy sauce for vegetarian or vegan)

Sweet soy sauce 2-4 tablespoons

Oyster sauce (optional)

Maggi sauce or seasoning soy sauce (optional)

White ground pepper (optional)

Sugar (optional)

Vegetable oil or lard 2 – 4 tablespoons

Method

1) Marinate the meat. I used pork, so I sliced and marinated it in soy sauce or oyster sauce and, the secret to making the meat tender, added about half a teaspoon of tapioca starch or cornstarch per a cup of meat into the mix. Tapioca starch or cornstarch will seal the surface of the meat and won’t let the water escape. You can do this marinade just right before you start cooking.

2) Separate the flat rice noodles, prep the vegetables: either sliced, cut, chopped or picked leaves, and get them all ready to go in the wok.

3) Add 2 tablespoons of oil in the wok, set on high heat and wait for the oil to be really hot, smoking is allowed. The key is to get the wok really hot, and then you add the chopped garlic and toss it around a few times, then add onion, then chilies, and cook until the onion is translucent.

4) Add the meat, tossing it around to cook it, making sure that every piece of meat is seared to seal in the juice. We will be cooking some more so you don’t have to thoroughly cook the meat, just the surface.

5) Add the tomatoes to the wok, stir-fry until they release their juice.

6) Add the noodles as soon as you see the tomatoes releasing juice. Also add the sauces. You might want to add only half at first and see if you need the rest of the sauces. Toss the contents around the wok.

If you like some burn spots on the noodles, stop tossing for 5 – 10 seconds at a time to let the noodles burn, then toss them again, alternatively doing that for a few rounds, and you will get nice, fragrant burn spots on the noodles.

Don’t forget to taste it! Adjust the taste to your liking, don’t just follow my recipe. I didn’t even really measure mine (REALLY?…Yes, really. Who has the time? The wok was freaking HOT! I can’t burn my dinner for a blog, you know). I tell you the approximate amounts. Then you taste it and see if this is the amount you like, then you have your own recipe. ;)

The noodles shouldn’t be too dry. The tomatoes are the source of liquid in this stir-fry but if it isn’t enough then add water, a tablespoon at a time. We don’t want a wet drunk. It’s nasty.

7) Push the noodles to one side of the wok, add more oil, then crack the egg in the oil and break the yolk with the spatula. Flip the noodles back on top of the egg, then count to fifteen. (Normal speed, not the super-fast way. If you want to count super-fast, then count to fifty!)

The counting is the time the eggs need to set a little. If you crack the egg and start to stir-fry right away, the egg will just disappear and leave the fishy smell and fishy taste behind…yuckkkkk! This is how I get the eggs to look like I just scrambled them and added them to the wok.

I’ve seen a lot of recipes out there on the internet that attempt to cook Pad See Ew or Pad Kee Mao or even PadThai with “scrambled egg” listed in the ingredients…Nope…It isn’t done that way amateur, NEVER.

Once you’re done counting, starting to push the noodles around the wok again. Sample it for the final taste adjustment.


8) TURN OFF THE HEAT and add the holy basil in the wok, tossing it to mix with the noodles. The heat left over from noodles is going to cook the delicate basil leaves. If you are using Italian basil, which has bigger, thicker leaves, you might end up with a slightly uncooked basil but it’s ok. It’s going to wilt down further anyway, but you can also continue the heat if you want to really cook the life out of the basil. Your choice.

You are not going to eat the noodles right out of the wok, are you? Even barbaric me doesn’t do that! Plate it and don’t forget to put ground white pepper on top and mix whiskey and soda for your drink. Let’s see if the noodles are drunk or you are